the country of Turkmenistan and
specifically its President Gurbanguly
Berdimuhamedov that that is not to be
confused with the Gurbanguly
Berdimuhamedov that he went to high
school with all the one that was dating
Taylor Swift over the summer no we're
talking about this government Ghoulie
Berdimuhamedov he's actually been in the
news a bit recently after rumors
circulated that he died something his
government pushed back on heart first
insisting that he was merely on vacation
then releasing a 25-minute video to
state TV showing everything he was
supposedly doing from bowling to working
out with his friends to this as we know
our dear leader is very skillful in
controlling a sports car he wrote his
powerful off-road car around the crater
and demonstrated his high professional
driving skills well count me convinced
that guy is clearly alive and well you
can't do donuts around a flaming pit if
you're dead think about all the people
who are dead right now Babe Ruth Galileo
Marlon Brando Mother Teresa the original
Paul McCartney do you see any of them
doing donuts around fire pits of course
you don't you have to be alive now if
Berdimuhamedov looks a bit familiar at
all to you we've actually mentioned him
before on this show during our segment
on authoritarian governments last year
when we showed you this clip of him
being a literal strongman
I hate to say this to a fellow lifter
but that shit's weak bro you did one rep
and they weren't even weights on the bar
even went on tapering I stacked more
plate than in omakase
my body stuck off beast mode and there's
no off switch you want to know how I got
these to Boulder shoulders by putting in
my time at my fortress of solitude I'm
just I'm the same bro take notes because
I burst out of suits like on Megan
Markel no mistake Berdimuhamedov is even
worse at ruling a country than he is at
pushing plate he is a fierce
authoritarian and according to Human
Rights Watch Turkmenistan remains one of
the world's most closed and oppressively
governed countries or as one NGO
researcher put it I would say it's
probably one of the worst places to live
in in the world so you know freedom of
the press absolutely know where you
could voice any kind of opinion it is
still virtually a police state one of
the worst places on earth that is quite
a claim especially considering the earth
also includes Syria North Korea and
Twitter and it's not just a lack of
freedom of speech they've also been
State Department reports of arbitrary
arrests and detention endemic corruption
and forced labor
so he's a dangerous world leader but
that is not the reason that we're
talking about him after all dangerous
world leaders are currently a dime a
dozen it's just one of the many things
that makes being alive right now
simply great know what makes birdie
Machamer tov unique is that even among
strongman dictators he is truly deeply
and compellingly odd so tonight let's
take a look at him and what this story
is going to get very weird I promise you
in 20 minutes you're not so much going
to be wondering why we talked about
Turkmenistan as why we'd ever talk about
anything else ever again
and let's start with the obvious
autocrat stuff here he's been running
token understand for for 12 years and in
his most recent election he won with 98
percent of the vote and like many
autocrats he's fond of showcasing his
physical prowess which he kind of
already knew from watching him install a
shower rod on hashtag arm dough and
there's just no shortage of videos
online where you can see him firing
weapons and throwing knives to impress
his troops but that is just the
beginning because Berdimuhamedov takes
those standard-issue cult of personality
antics and does them just a little bit
stranger shorter by shooting targets
down while riding a bike our great
commander-in-chief once again
demonstrated his physical readiness this
became a moment when our dear leader who
has high skills in every trade
demonstrated his level of masterfulness
oh yes total masterfulness so watch out
enemies of turkmenistan because
Berdimuhamedov will not hesitate to
slowly write a bike near you and shoot a
gun in your general vicinity before an
editor makes it local he actually hit
you but Berlin is not just knife tossing
and gun cycling Berdimuhamedov is also
an artist and his canvas is the human
ear he went viral last year with a rap
video recorded with his grandson about
the importance of sports called sport
lee turkmenistan his inspiration makes
buddies show and show all the nations
gives you a joy and race spirit high
spots as though 80 or health
[Music]
Anamika calm
[Applause]
fire everything about that video is
perfect from the fact that clearly
neither of them are playing their
instruments to the fact that they just
roamed Turkmenistan with Turkmenistan oh
it is a fun catchy sports anthem truly
worthy of jock jams vol 40 maybe sports
suck but his musical talents don't just
stop there he also deejays plays the
piano and he's a guitarist who goes to
great lengths to conceal his blistering
chops
[Music]
holy he looks like he's playing a
duet with the smoke monster from lost
that stage looks like the back entrance
to a church after a French a a meeting
so so he's a strong man who likes
deejaying rapping with his grandson and
playing the guitar but amazingly we
haven't even gotten to the truly weird
stuff yet because birdy become a dog
also likes horses
like a lot like the incorrect amount
like to the extent that it distracts
from everything he's done during his
nearly 13-year presidency just think
about how much Angela Merkel would have
to like Turtles for someone to go on TV
and say we don't have much time so let's
put aside everything she's ever done as
Chancellor of Germany and let's focus on
the turtle thing that is how much
Berdimuhamedov likes horses and and not
just any horse he's specifically a fan
of the occult echo which which isn't in
itself unusually - beloved national
symbol in Turkmenistan but not only does
he give a halter cakes as gifts to other
world leaders he's written multiple
books on horses including the horse a
symbol of faithfulness and happiness the
flight of the celestial raced horses and
a Cal Tech a our pride and glory until
recently an official english-language
copy of that book was actually available
on Amazon but unfortunately there was
only one copy and it and it appears that
someone bought it shipped it to New York
and put it under their desk because
would you like to hear my favorite
passage from this book bit because it's
this and I quote witnesses never wearied
of being astonished by the steed and
human intercourse brought to full
perfection which I'm hoping I'm hoping
as a mistranslation but probably isn't
because Berdimuhamedov has involved
himself in all stages of the horse
lifecycle a few years ago he awarded
himself the title the people's horse
breeder he's also made it illegal to
change in a Cal Tech a horse's name
during its lifetime and a few years ago
issued a presidential decree instituting
a tradition of beauty contests for
horses which is definitely odd but at
the same time you do have to admit the
outer K is a beautiful horse I mean
that's a super horse right
there I'm not saying that I would
that horse I'm just saying that if I was
a horse
I would that horse to be clear me
John Oliver the human would not
that horse but John Oliver the horse
would definitely that
[Applause]
other horses all the time that's how
they make new horses I guess what I'm
saying is if I was a horse and you said
to me marry kill Mustang I shall
take a Clydesdale no question in my
horse mind the Apple tech a marry
the Mustang said the Clydesdale to the
glue factory but again if I was a horse
only if I was a horse and literally
I've thought about this a lot but
definitely not as much as Gurbanguly
Berdimuhamedov has amazingly he
reportedly owns more than 600 a Caltech
ace which is almost 10% of the world's
total he owns a plurality of them that
is objectively too many horses imagine
owning 10% of the world's total of
anything and I say this as the owner of
100% of Amazon's inventory a Caltech a
our pride and glory now early this year
someone actually gave Berdimuhamedov yet
another one named Rho watch and he was
so excited that he wrote a poem about
his new horse and read it on state TV
and this is real Peter Allen you are the
worship and memorabilia of ancestors you
are the passage of the past into
tomorrow
your neighing is the melody of heavens
Roe watch you are the anthem of my heart
wait just wait your neighing is the
melody of heavens writing a sonnet
about a horse is we it strongly suggests
that he'd like to have sex with that
horse but writing the sonnet about
a horse while sitting on a horse thrown
among horse accented cabinetry
complemented by a horse statue horseshoe
and custom desk inlaid with gold horses
that strongly suggests that he actually
already did the point is president Equus
he likes horses but do horses like him
the answer and this is a direct quote is
neigh and and don't just take that from
me
[Applause]
watch his expression there that's not so
much an expression as a physical
manifestation of the phrase I can't even
and this isn't even the first time a
horse has seemed to have an issue with
Berdimuhamedov just watch what happened
when he participated in a horse race in
2013 and before I show you this I should
say two things first remember
he runs a country where activists are
disappeared in the prison system and
which has hit the bottom of a number of
human rights indexes and second the
horse you're about to see was fine here
it was fine so with those two things in
mind watch this again the horse is alive
and well I can prove it to you
here he is doing donuts around a fire
pit you have to be alive to do that case
closed laughs now interestingly when
that race aired on TV in Turkmenistan
the footage cut off a split second
before his fall so Berdimuhamedov really
didn't want people to see that footage
specifically this footage exactly that's
the footage that he really didn't want
people to see in fact he was so
concerned that people might see it
journalists were apparently asked to
erase all pictures and footage taken of
the incident and at the airport
officials conducted extra checks for
flash sticks and camera memory disks for
any traces of the video and look I'm not
going to show you that same video again
I mean why would I when I can instead
show you a closer angle of the exact
same incident
[Music]
again the horse is fine and this is true
a hero so so to summarize here so when a
stance authoritarian president is a
strong man /dj with a creepy
unreciprocated affection for horses and
that is where this story ends or at
least it was going to until we learned
about one last bizarre obsession of his
and in the words of Turkmen airport
officials inspecting the luggage of
foreign journalists we are going to have
to unpack it the president has a
childlike obsession with collecting
Guinness World Records ashgabat holds
the record for highest density of
buildings with white marble cladding
this Tower won a world record for
largest architectural image of a star
again a Guinness record for the hotly
contested title of world's largest
indoor ferris wheel first of all the
only thing worse than a ferris wheel is
an indoor ferris wheel and second the
highest density of buildings with white
marble cladding is just a pointless
record I get he clearly has an obsession
with marble the man even built a statue
of himself on a golden horse atop a
massive white marble cliff but at some
point a record is so bizarrely specific
it ceases to be impressive like largest
a bowl of goulash eaten while watching
Fraser or world's tallest Ansel Elgort
awesome also incidentally the world's
smallest Ansel Elgort but but the point
is during his tenure as president
Turkmenistan has aggressively set a
number of Guinness records including the
world's highest number of fountain pools
in a public space the world's longest
single line bicycle parade the world's
largest horse head statue of course and
the world's largest cycling awareness
lesson we actually found footage of him
setting that record and he seemed pretty
psyched about his achievement I would
like to express my special appreciation
to a representative of the Guinness
record book for a certificate for the
largest cycling awareness lesson this
respected award is another one into the
collection of our country's Guinness
records
okay so first of all a cycling awareness
lesson seems entirely unnecessary
cycling is what you do when you want to
lose a gunfight as slowly and as
inaccurately as possible who isn't aware
of that by this point but but here is
where the story is actually going to
shift away from turkmenistan for a
minute although I promise we will be
back because at this point we started
wondering what is unofficial from
Guinness World Records doing in one of
the most repressive countries on earth
certifying records for an autocrat
because this is supposed to be the fun
loving company that certifies quirky
records like and these are real most
apples held in the mouth and cut by a
chainsaw in one minute or oldest male
stripper it's it's supposed to be fun
but but when we started looking into it
we discovered that in the last few years
a big chunk of Guinness World Records
income now comes from helping companies
and other clients invent and break new
records to get publicity things like
working with General Mills to set the
record for world's longest line of tacos
basically that they can help design an
event and even send an official
adjudicator like the one you just saw to
award the record on the spot but that
doesn't come cheap for a full-service
event they reportedly charge anywhere
from twelve thousand to over half a
million dollars and you might think okay
but who gives this I'm not a nine
year old waiting to testify in family
court
why do I care about the Guinness Book of
World Records but but that the thing is
it's not just companies they also work
with authoritarian governments and
Berdimuhamedov isn't the only one
Guinness World Records has also sent the
Judah caters to Saudi Arabia 234 Records
like their world's largest flagpole and
has repeatedly worked with the Dubai
police force helping them break 11
records among them most consecutive
formations formed by unmanned aerial
vehicles and if you're wondering what
that even means here is what it looked
like
[Music]
alright alright alright
first I would argue he could be slightly
more impressed by that drunk
constellation of his own face although I
will say this that might actually be the
single most ethically defensible use of
drones in the Middle East the whole
point we're making here is
authoritarians love getting Guinness
World Records and you can see why they
reinforce a cult of personality and
confer a sense of legitimacy on a global
stage which brings us back to Gurbanguly
Berdimuhamedov because he absolutely
loves them so if he wanted to hurt him
they'd actually be his weak point the
only question is if you wanted to
embarrass this particular
human rights of using horse what
what what record would hurt him the most
I mean it'd have to involve some of his
favorite things wouldn't it like horses
and white marble and also include a
humiliating moment that he didn't want
people to know about so hypothetically
if you could make the world's largest
marble cake featuring the image of him
falling off a horse that would check all
of the boxes there right I mean of
course it wouldn't be easy would it the
current record for largest marble cake
is around 160 square feet set by Betty
Crocker in where else but Saudi Arabia
also you'd ideally want an official
adjudicator to come and certify the cake
immediately and unfortunately here is
where I do have some bad news because we
actually planned to bake a six hundred
square foot cake that would make Betty
Crocker's look like a mouse
Twinkie but but when we reached out to
Guinness World Records and we asked them
to send someone they declined saying and
I quote unfortunately because our brand
is aligned with kids and families this
record attempt is not one that we will
be able to provide an adjudicator for
which is it's a real shame I guess we
just don't run a brutal enough
dictatorship to meet Guinness World
Records high ethical standards
they did say that if we fully documented
making the cake they might certify us
after the fact unfortunately they wanted
us to sign an agreement that could have
prevented us from criticizing them in
this story which is clearly ridiculous
but then it hit us we don't need
Guinness World Records to make a world
record sized cake and if we did not only
would we be annoying an authoritarian
leader we'd also now be annoying these
guys so so did we bake it I mean I guess
I really only have two questions for you
at this point one are you ready to make
history and - who wants some
cake
[Applause]
we're gonna get weird tonight good night
our main story concerns Turkmenistan
you did not expect the show to end 20
minutes later we'll be standing next to
the world's largest marble cake
depicting the guide for her
I have some good news everyone in this
audience is going to get some cake
roasted beasts will be delighted to City
Harvest we did it guys we did it we did
it
[Applause]
see you next week good night